So what's missing now?
Well, obviously, I want to make sure that when we have items in the cart, we can hit that order button
here and add them to our orders screen.
And for this, we need to manage orders.
Now, in my opinion, it makes sense to add a new class, a new provided class for that, because it
doesn't really fit into products there.
Going to manage to products we can work with doesn't fit into CART because there I want to manage only
my cart, not the orders and product.
Here is just a single product we use in products.
We could of course also move that product class into the product start file.
So add a new file orders dot start where I want to manage the orders we have in there.
We can create a new class orders and I'll use with change notifier imported from Flutter Foundation
start because of course we will provide that and we might have places in the app where we want to listen
to changes.
Now in there I will want to manage some orders, unsurprisingly, and for that of course, we first
of all need to define how our order should look like.
Just as with the cart here, I'll create my order item right inside the same file.
You could do it in a separate file and each order should have an ID should have an amount.
So the total amount.
So the quantity of items times the price, so to say.
I also want to find out which products were ordered.
So I want to get a list of my products and they're actually off the card items, to be precise, because
I also want to find out which quantity was ordered and so on.
So I'll import my cart start file here so that I can use the card item class here and then have my products
here and also the time at which this order was placed.
That's also something that's worth storing.
Then let's add the constructor and I will go with named arguments here to assign values to all these
properties.
Like this.
Whoops.
And that should be order item, of course.
And also just as we did it earlier, I'll mark all these arguments here as required.
So that's the order item in the orders class will now have a list of such items.
So down there we can add a list of type order item or which holds an order item orders which is empty
initially, let's say.
And then here we can already add a getter which returns our order items.
Named Orders, which returns a copy again by using or by creating a new list with square brackets,
and then using the spread operator to take some items and move them into this new list.
So here are the items which are part of orders.
And I'm doing this so that from outside this class we can't edit orders.
Now what I need here is, of course, an add order method which returns nothing but which is executed
when we click that order now button here on the card screen.
The idea here is to then add all the content of the card into one order.
So I should probably get a list of card items which only card products here as an argument, maybe already
get the total.
If I already have that calculated, I don't have to redo it.
And then with that, we can add this as a new order.
So here we can reach out to orders to the list and.
Added as a new order or actually use insert with index zero to add it as the first element in the list
add.
We'll always add it at the end of the list with insert zero.
We added at the beginning of the list so that more recent orders are at the beginning of the list.
But that's totally up to you.
So here I'll use insert zero to add the new order at the beginning of the order's list and move all
existing orders.
Well, one index ahead to the end.
And then here the element which should be added is of course a new order item.
And there we need to define an ID and for now I'll use state time now to string to get a pseudo unique
ID.
Then we also need to define our.
Amount here.
That's the total which I'm getting as an argument.
Then we have the current time stamp, but there we can just use the same time daytime now.
And we also need to pass in our products that are just the card products which I'm receiving.
So with that, we're adding a new order.
And now in case we got someone who's listening, we want to call notify listeners so that any places
in the app which depend on orders are now updated.
Placing an order also means that we want to clear the cart.
Of course, because we ordered all elements, so the cart should be cleared.
So in the cart dart file we can add a new method, clear cart or just clear whatever you want to name
it.
And there I will set items back.
To an empty map and then call notify listeners.
We can now start using that.
First of all, we need to provide our orders class, right?
Because I plan on using that in different places in the app, even to dispatch actions like add a new
order or to listen to my orders or fetch my orders.
So where should we provide it?
If we have a look at the main dart file, we'll definitely need orders in the cart screen, or at least
in a part of the card screen there.
And we'll add a new screen soon which shows all orders, so therefore will register a brand new screen
which definitely needs access to the orders.
And therefore we also need to provide the orders here in the root app just because it's important.
Keep in mind this does not mean that the entire app rebuilds when something changes there because it's
not the provider which causes a rebuild, but the listener and the listeners are not here in the main
widget.
They are in different widgets, for example, in the card screen where we have our card provider and
so on.
These are the listeners which rebuild the UI.
Therefore, in Main Dart, we can now add another provider here, our change notifier provider.
With dot value where the value is actually a new instance of orders.
And for that, of course, we need to import.
Our.
Order order start file from the providers folder.
With that imported, we create a new instance here and provide that as a value and with that we can
listen to orders from anywhere in our application.
And of course you already know it just as recommended before.
You shouldn't necessarily use the value constructor here.
So just to reemphasize this, the recommended approach here again as before would be that you use the
create function here in the normal constructor function of the change notifier provider for products
for CART and also here for orders or of course the builder's function if you're using provider package
version free.
So that's the recommended approach.
Again, I mentioned it before, it's just really important to me.
The other approach, all the works, but that's a better approach.